SNAP: SN (Discrete Ordinates) Application Proxy

Regression Testing Files

Provided are two directories with input and output of several SNAP jobs. The
included files are designed to test several features of the SNAP coding. Users
may start with the sample inputs to scale to larger problems. Typical problems
SNAP's model code PARTISN is expected to handle include the following ranges:

Number of angles per octant (nang): 10 - 2,000
Number of energy groups (ng): 30 - 150
Number of spatial cells per MPI rank [nx*ny*nz/(npey*npez)]: 2,000-5,000
Scattering order (nmom): 2-4

We strongly urge user to consider these ranges for scaling studies.

The regression tests are divided into two sets. "mms_src" uses the method of
manufactured solutions setting (src_opt=3) to generate a source that is used
in the SNAP computations. "center_src" uses the center source option (src_opt=1)
to set an isotropic source of strength unity and compute the resulting flux
solution. Each set has problems of varying size and parallel decomposition.
Moreover each set has problems with and without the fixup algorithm.

Due to the design of SNAP, the solution produced has no physical meaning.
Moreover, the numerical algorithm is known to have instabilities that will
prevent some problems from converging. Modifying the problem can be done to
produce a solution that can be analyzed, mainly for debugging (e.g., if the
solution should be symmetric). However, if the solution does not converge,
warning messages are printed to the standard output (terminal) and to the
output file, and the timing summary is still provided. Given that SNAP has
been designed to perform the same operations as its model PARTISN without
actually solving a real physical system, the timing summary should help users
understand the performance of the problem being tested and relate that
performance to that expected of PARTISN.

That said, since SNAP may be modified for particular architectures, the
regression tests are provided to ensure that any modifications still produce
the same result as the base code provided. The method of manufactured solutions
algorithm should help test problems of any size, given that such parameters
do not lead to a non-converging setup.

In each testing directory, three scripts are provided to assist users who
wish to test the base code or a build with modifications. The script 'genall'
establish baseline cases. Use genall with the command:

./genall [path]/[code name]

Likewise, the script 'chkall' produces new outputs for comparison with some
reference output. Use chkall with the command:

./chkall [path]/[code name]

Lastly, if the new outputs are to be set as the baseline use 'mvnewtoold' to
properly rename the files.

./mvnewtoold

To compare outputs, some key parameters one may wish to consider include the
number of iterations, the flux solution, or in the case of method of
manufactured solutions (src_opt=3) the maximum and minimum differences between
the manufactured and computed solutions.

---03/07/2013


Changes to regression testing since original SNAP release in 2013

These updated test cases have been compared to the output of the originals.
Differences were found due to a bug in the original SNAP. The bug has been
corrected. It did not affect performance results, but did affect the converged
solution.

Test cases have been modified or added to test new input/output options.
The option 'swp_typ' allows one to vary the sweep ordering for multi-dimensional
problems. Printing a different z-plane scalar flux to file is possible with
'kplane'. The option 'popout' will print population distribution details that
may be used to get a sense of what kinds of information is needed for
checkpointing and time-dependent editing.

The nested threading option for swp_typ=0 currently only works for single
process jobs. This form of nested threading is experimental, but a test case
is provided.

--02/19/2015


